# multiOmics4fastingTherapies
Multi OMICS analysis for comparisons of fasting therapies  

## Overview

In recent years, the largely unlimited access to high caloric food has triggered the pandemic expansion of obesity and related metabolic complications in Western societies. Intriguingly, the controlled implementation of different fasting routines into daily life or even clinical settings has proven to ameliorate major components of obesity-related metabolic disturbances in mice and man. However, the molecular underpinnings of the impact of distinct fasting regimens on metabolism and metabolic health remain obscure. Here, we provide a comprehensive, integrated, and comparative multi-omics analysis of the hepatic responses to intermittent fasting (IF) and time-restricted feeding (TRF) in mice. Analysis of our data resource demonstrated that despite similar metabolic improvements, both IF and TRF elicited a distinct molecular response in the liver. Correlating with a shift in oscillating genetic pathways, IF and TRF displayed a divergent lipidomics profile, coupled to proteomics but not transcriptomics alterations under both fasting regimens. Of note, data analysis demonstrated that TRF closely mirrored vertical sleeve gastrectomy (VSG), the most effective obesity therapy to date, illustrating a showcase for data resource usage. Our data highlight the complexity of hepatic fasting responses and suggest that the exploitation of our fasting data resource will allow for the definition of tailored  therapeutic needs of individuals to elicit optimal benefits for metabolic health.  
